# Parkinsons-prj
Predicts early detection of Parkinson's disease using Xg-boost and other machine learning algorithms.

## ABSTRACT
Parkinson’s disease (PD) can be detected at an early stage using voice signals. This project gives insights into different voice features that help for early PD detection. The pre-monitoring stage of Parkinson’s disease is very important and it can be detected and its severity can be known using XG Boost algorithm with the help of the speech features dataset. The accuracy and performance of KNN, Decision tree, Logistic regression are compared with the XGBoost algorithm based on the data of 48 healthy persons and 147 Parkinson’s disease patients.

Parkinson’s disease is a central nervous system disorder. It results in Nerve cell damage in the brain. The symptoms can differ from one person to another person. There are two types of symptoms that are observed. One is related to the movement(motor) and the other related to non-movement(non-motor). The movement symptoms include tremor in one hand, slow movement, loss of balance in the body, and no proper stiffness (improper balance). The non-movement symptoms include depression, loss of smell etc.
The patients affected with this disease will have speech disorders and are prevailed in them. Speech analysis and its distinguishing are necessary to recognize the early symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and can be treated at the early stage and can stop their symptoms from occurring. Thus, the patient’s life can be saved. This prediction of the disease would be very much useful in the medical field. Voice measurements like Dysarthria, Hypophonia, Tachyphemia can be detected at the early stage of the disease. This problem can be solved using Machine Learning algorithms like Logistic Regression, Decision tree, Random Forest, XG Boost and the comparison of accuracy and performance can be known.
